feat: update filecoin spec (#81)
web3-storage/specs: w3-filecoin.md

##### Effects

The issued receipt MUST have a `fx.join` [effect] that links to the [`filecoin/accept`] task. The [Storefront] MUST issue the receipt for this task once the content piece is aggregated and the deal is published to the filecoin chain.

> This allows an agent to get a result without having to follow progress across the entire invocation chain.

The issued receipt MUST have a `fx.fork` [effect] that links to the [`filecoin/submit`] task. The [Storefront] MUST issue a receipt for this task once it has processed the request and queued it for aggregation, or failed with an error (implying a problem with the piece or content).

> This allows an agent to follow progress across the entire invocation chain.

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...filOffer",
  "out": {
    /* commitment proof for piece */
    "ok": { "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" } }
  },
  "fx": {
    "join": { "/": "bafy...filAccept" },
    "fork": [{ "/": "bafy...filSubmit" }]
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

#### `filecoin/accept`

> This task is effectively a shortcut allowing an observer to find out the result of the [`filecoin/offer`] task chain without having to follow each step.  The [Storefront] MUST issue a signed receipt with an [`DataAggregationProof`] result or an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This task is effectively a shortcut allowing an observer to find out the result of the [`filecoin/offer`] task chain without having to follow each step. The [Storefront] MUST issue a signed receipt with a [`DataAggregationProof`] result or an error.
```

        "dealID": 1245
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### `filecoin/submit`

The task MUST be invoked by the [Storefront] which MAY be used to verify the offered content piece before propagating it through the pipeline.
> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:web3.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "att": [
    {
      "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
      "can": "filecoin/submit",
      "nb": {
        /* CID of uploaded content */
        "content": { "/": "bag...car" },
        /* commitment proof for piece */
        "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" }
      }
    }
  ],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

A [Storefront] MUST issue a signed receipt that either succeeds and links to the [`piece/offer`] task via a `fx.join` [effect] or fails with specified reason (e.g. the `content` does not correspond to the provided `piece`).

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...filSubmit",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      /* commitment proof for piece */
      "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" } 
    }
  },
  "fx": {
    "join": { "/": "bafy...pieceOffer" }
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

> See the [`piece/offer`] section to see the subsequent task.

Reviewer: Already said "see"!

```suggestion
See the [`piece/offer`] section for the subsequent task.
```

A Storefront MUST submit content for aggregation by it's piece CID. It MAY be computed from content by a trusted actor or it MAY be computed by the Storefront itself. A Storefront MUST provide a capability that can be used to submit a piece to be replicated by (Filecoin) Storage Providers. It may be invoked by a Storefront client or delegated to a hired third party, ether way a Storefront MUST acknowledge request by issuing a signed receipt. A Storefront MAY decide to verify submitted piece prior to aggregation. A Storefront MAY also operate trusted actor that computes and submits pieces on content upload.

> Once a Storefront receives the offer for a piece, it is pending for verification. Storefront MUST issue receipt proofing that request state has transition from `uninitialized` to `pending` if result was `ok` or to `failed` if result was `error`. Storefront MAY fail invocation if piece `content` has not been provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `filecoin/offer`

Once a Storefront receives the offer for a piece, it is pending for verification. Storefront MUST issue receipt proofing that request state has transition from `uninitialized` to `pending` if result was `ok` or to `failed` if result was `error`. Storefront MAY fail invocation if piece `content` has not been provided.
```

if we have the effects, maybe we want to capture first invocation?

Reviewer 2: Maybe actually better to remove the other headers given they are not used in other sections below?

> Once a Storefront receives the offer for a piece, it is pending for verification. Storefront MUST issue receipt proofing that request state has transition from `uninitialized` to `pending` if result was `ok` or to `failed` if result was `error`. Storefront MAY fail invocation if piece `content` has not been provided.

Author: ```suggestion
Once a Storefront receives the offer for a piece, it is pending for verification. The Storefront MUST issue a receipt proving that request state has transition from `uninitialized` to `pending` if result was `ok`, or to `failed` if result was `error`. The Storefront MAY fail invocation if piece `content` has not been provided.
```

#### `filecoin/submit` effect

Successful invocation receipt MUST have `fx.fork` [effect] that links to the next task of the workflow. It allows observer to follow progress of the execution.

The storefront MUST issue receipt of the linked `filecoin/submit` task after it verifies offered piece queues it for aggregation. This receipt MUST have `fx.join` [effect] that links to a `piece/offer` task that forwards submitted piece to the _Aggregator_.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Agent as <br/>did:key:aAlice<br/>
    participant Storefront as <br/>did:web:web3.storage<br/>
    participant Aggregator as <br/>did:web:aggregator.web3.storage<br/>

    Agent->>Storefront: run: filecoin/offer<br/>with:did:key:aSpace
    Activate Storefront
    Note left of Storefront: Request piece to be added to filecoin deal

    par
    Storefront->>Storefront: fx.fork: filecoin/submit<br/>with:did:web:web3.storage

    Storefront->>Aggregator: fx.join: piece/offer
    Storefront-->>Agent: Receipt accepting offer
    end
    par

    Storefront->>Storefront: fx.join: filecoin/accept <br/>with:did:web:web3.storage
    
    Storefront-->>Agent: Receipt with final result
    end

>     Storefront-->>Agent: Receipt akwnoledging offer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Storefront-->>Agent: Receipt acknowledging offer
```

If Storefront offers a piece multiple times, Aggregator MUST respond with the receipt containing same result and effect(s).

> ℹ️ Invocation nonce could be used to force piece to be included into another aggregate.

The same Piece submitted by different Storefronts SHOULD NOT be considered a duplicate.

After an Aggregator includes piece in an aggregate it MUST issue `piece/accept` receipt with an piece inclusion proof in result. Receipt MUST have `fx.join` [effect] that links to an `aggregate/offer` task for the aggregate where piece was included.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Storefront as <br/>did:web:web3.storage<br/>
    participant Aggregator as <br/>did:web:aggregator.web3.storage<br/>
    participant Dealer as <br/>did:web:dealer.web3.storage<br/>

    Storefront->>Aggregator: run: piece/offer<br>with: did:web:web3.storage
    activate Aggregator
    Note left of Aggregator: Request piece to be included in aggregate
    par
    Aggregator->>Aggregator: invoke piece/accept <br/>with: did:key:agg...
    Aggregator->>Dealer: fx.join aggregate/offer
    Aggregator-->>Storefront: Receipt with inclusion proof
    end

>     Aggregator-->>Storefront: Receipt akwnoledging offer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Aggregator-->>Storefront: Receipt acknowledging offer
```

    deactivate Aggregator
```

### Aggregator offers dealer an aggregate

When the Aggregator has enough content pieces to build a qualified aggregate (dealers MAY impose different requirements), it MUST offer an aggregate to the Dealer. Dealer MUST issue signed receipt acknowledging an offer, actual deal negotiation with Filecoin Storage Providers MAY be carried out of band.

If Dealer receives a request with an aggregate multiple times it MUST (re)issue receipt with the same result and effects.

> ℹ️ Invocation nonce could be used to force aggregate to be reprocessed.

Issued receipt MUST have `fx.join` [effect] linking to a `aggregate/accept` task which either succeeds with filecoin [`DataAggregationProof`] result or fails (e.g. if Storage Provider failed to replicate and reported an error).

> Dealer MUST broker deal(s) with Filecoin Storage Providers (out of band). It MUST issue receipt for `aggregate/accept` task with succeed or failure result depending on the availability of storage providers and their ability to replicate content pieces in the aggregate. Successful task MUST have [`DataAggregationProof`] as result and contain no [effect]s.

Reviewer 2: There is something weird with the start of this sentence. Could not understand exactly, but maybe `broker` should be replaced by `handle`?

Author: Hmm, I think I like verb broker better because it is more specific which per google means

<img width="675" alt="image" src="https://github.com/web3-storage/specs/assets/21236/edb22768-8a71-48b3-bf6a-2b63487e158e">

If you don't like **broker** we could change it to **arrange** instead.

Reviewer 2: That seems good. Wow, did not know about this verb 😂

> Failed task MUST provide an error reason. When pieces of the aggregate can be retried issued receipt MUST contain `fx.fork` [effect]s with `piece/offer` task per piece.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Failed task MUST provide an error reason. When pieces of the aggregate are retried, issued receipt MUST contain `fx.fork` [effect]s with `piece/offer` task per piece.
```

> > Note: Dealer MAY have several intermediate steps and states it transitions through, however those intentionally are not captured by this protocol, because other actor take no action until success / failure condition is met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: The Dealer MAY have several intermediate steps and states it transitions through, however those are _not_ captured by this protocol intentionally, because the other actor take no action until a success / failure condition is met.
```

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Aggregator as <br/>did:web:aggregator.web3.storage<br/>
    participant Dealer as <br/>did:web:dealer.web3.storage<br/>

    Aggregator->>Dealer: run: aggregate/offer<br/>with: did:key:agg...
    activate Dealer
    Note left of Dealer: Request to arrange deal for the aggregate
    par
    Dealer->>Dealer: run: aggregate/accept<br/>with: did:key:brk...
    Dealer-->>Aggregator: Receipt with DataAggregationProof or error
    end
    Dealer-->>Aggregator: Receipt akwnoledging offer
    deactivate Dealer
```

### _Deal Tracker_ can be queried for the aggregate status

> Storefront users MAY want to check status of the deals of their content. Deals change over time as they get renewed. Therefore, Storefront MAY invoke `deal/info` capability to gather information about an aggregate. Storefront SHOULD be able to look up aggregate from received inclusion proofs and use it to look up deal info by it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storefront users MAY want to check status of the deals for their content. Deals change over time as they get renewed. Therefore, the Storefront MAY invoke `deal/info` capability to gather information about an aggregate. The Storefront SHOULD be able to look up an aggregate from received inclusion proofs and use them to look up deal status information.
```

> Dealer MAY also use _Deal Tracker_ to poll for status of the the aggregates to obtain proof that deals have made it onto a chain and to issue `aggregate/accept` receipts when they do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dealer MAY also use a _Deal Tracker_ to poll for status of the the aggregates to obtain proof that deals have made it onto a chain and to issue `aggregate/accept` receipts when they do.
```

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Storefront as <br/>did:web:web3.storage<br/>
    participant DealTracker as <br/>did:web:tracker.web3.storage<br/>

>     participant Aggregator as <br/>did:web:aggregator.web3.storage<br/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    participant Dealer as <br/>did:web:dealer.web3.storage<br/>
```

    Storefront->>DealTracker: run: deal/info
    Note left of DealTracker: Request information about an aggregate

>     Aggregator->>DealTracker: run deal/info

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Dealer->>DealTracker: run deal/info
```

    Note right of DealTracker: Request information about an aggregate
```

## Capabilities

> This section describes set of capabilities that form the w3 filecoin protocol, along with the details relevant for invoking them with a service provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the set of capabilities that form the w3 filecoin protocol, along with the details relevant for invoking them with a service provider.
```

In this document, we will be exposing capabilities implemented by Storefront `web3.storage`, Aggregator `aggregator.web3.storage`, Dealer `dealer.web3.storage` and Deal Tracker `tracker.web3.storage`.

### Storefront Capabilities

#### `filecoin/offer`

> An agent MAY invoke `filecoin/offer` capability to request storing a content piece in Filecoin. See [schema](#filecoinqueue-schema).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An agent MAY invoke the `filecoin/offer` capability to request storing a content piece in Filecoin. See [schema](#filecoinqueue-schema).
```

> `did:key:zAliceAgent` invokes `filecoin/offer` capability provided by `did:web:web3.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:key:zAliceAgent",
  "aud": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "att": [
    {
      "with": "did:key:zAlice",
      "can": "filecoin/offer",
      "nb": {
        /* CID of the uploaded content */
        "content": { "/": "bag...car" },
        /* Commitment proof for piece */
        "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" }
      }
    }
  ],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

> Storefront MAY fail invocation if linked `content` has not yet been stored in the given space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Storefront MAY fail the invocation if the linked `content` has not yet been stored in the given space.
```

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...filOffer",
  "out": {
    "error": {
      "name": "ContentNotFoundError",
      "content": { "/": "bag...car" }
    }
  }
}
```

> Alternatively, Storefront MAY choose to queue request until linked `content` has been uploaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, the Storefront MAY choose to queue request until linked `content` has been uploaded.
```

> Storefront MUST issue a signed receipt for successful invocation akwnoledging request (regardless if it already has a `content` or if it chose to wait for an upload).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Storefront MUST issue a signed receipt for successful invocation acknowledging request (regardless if it already has a `content` or if it chose to wait for an upload).
```

#### Effects

> Issued receipt MUST have `fx.join` [effect] that links to the `filecoin/accept` task. Storefront MUST issue receipt for this task once content piece is aggregated and deal is published to filecoin chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The issued receipt MUST have an `fx.join` [effect] that links to the `filecoin/accept` task. The Storefront MUST issue the receipt for this task once the content piece is aggregated and the deal is published to the filecoin chain.
```

> > This allows agent to get a result without having to follow the progress across invocation chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This allows an agent to get a result without having to follow progress across the entire invocation chain.
```

> Issued receipt MUST have `fx.fork` [effect] that links to the `filecoin/submit` task. Storefront MUST issue receipt for this task once it processed request and queued it for aggregation or failed with an error (implying problem with piece or a content).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The issued receipt MUST have an `fx.fork` [effect] that links to the `filecoin/submit` task. The Storefront MUST issue a receipt for this task once it has processed the request and queued it for aggregation, or failed with an error (implying a problem with the piece or content).
```

> > This allows agent to follow the progress across invocation chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This allows an agent to follow progress across the entire invocation chain.
```

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...filOffer",
  "out": {
    /* commitment proof for piece */
    "ok": { "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" } }
  },
  "fx": {
    "join": { "/": "bafy...filAccept" },
    "fork": [{ "/": "bafy...filSubmit" }]
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

#### `filecoin/accept`

> This task is effectively a shortcut allowing observer to find out result of the `filecoin/offer` task chain without having to follow each step.  _Storefront_ MUST issue signed receipt with an [`DataAggregationProof`] result or an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This task is effectively a shortcut allowing an observer to find out the result of the `filecoin/offer` task chain without having to follow each step.  The _Storefront_ MUST issue a signed receipt with an [`DataAggregationProof`] result or an error.
```

##### Filecoin Accept Failure

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...filAccept",
  "out": {
    "error": {
      "name": "InvalidContentPiece",
      "content": { "/": "bafk...commp" }
    }
  }
}
```

##### Filecoin Accept Success

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...filAccept",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      "inclusion": {
        "tree": {
          "path": [
            "bafk...root",
            "bafk...parent",
            "bafk...child",
            "bag...car"
          ],
          "at": 1
        },
        "index": {
          "path": [/** ... */],
          "at": 7
        }
      },
      "auxDataType": 0,
      "auxDataSource": {
        "dealID": 1245
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### `filecoin/submit`

> The task MUST be invoked by the Storefront which MAY be used to verify offered content piece before propagating it through the pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The task MUST be invoked by the Storefront which MAY be used to verify the offered content piece before propagating it through the pipeline.
```

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:web3.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "att": [
    {
      "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
      "can": "filecoin/submit",
      "nb": {
        /* CID of uploaded content */
        "content": { "/": "bag...car" },
        /* commitment proof for piece */
        "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" }
      }
    }
  ],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

> Storefront MUST issue signed receipt that either succeeds and links to the `aggregate/offer` task via `fx.join` [effect] or fails with specified reason (e.g. `content` does not corresponds to the provided `piece`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Storefront MUST issue a signed receipt that either succeeds and links to the `aggregate/offer` task via an `fx.join` [effect] or fails with specified reason (e.g. the `content` does not correspond to the provided `piece`).
```

> Storefront MUST issue signed receipt that either succeeds and links to the `aggregate/offer` task via `fx.join` [effect] or fails with specified reason (e.g. `content` does not corresponds to the provided `piece`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Storefront MUST issue signed receipt that either succeeds and links to the `piece/offer` task via `fx.join` [effect] or fails with specified reason (e.g. `content` does not corresponds to the provided `piece`).
```

Author: ```suggestion
A Storefront MUST issue a signed receipt that either succeeds and links to the `piece/offer` task via an `fx.join` [effect] or fails with specified reason (e.g. the `content` does not correspond to the provided `piece`).
```

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...filSubmit",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      /* commitment proof for piece */
      "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" } 
    }
  },
  "fx": {

>     "join": { "/": "bafy...aggregateOffer" }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "join": { "/": "bafy...pieceOffer" }
```

  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

> See [`aggregate/offer`](#aggregateoffer) section to see the subsequent task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [`aggregate/offer`](#aggregateoffer) section to see the subsequent task.
```

> See [`aggregate/offer`](#aggregateoffer) section to see the subsequent task.

Author: ```suggestion
See the [`piece/offer`](#pieceoffer)section to see the subsequent task.
```

}
```

### _Aggregator_ Capabilities

#### `piece/offer`

A [Storefront] can invoke a capability to offer a piece to be aggregated for upcoming Filecoin deal(s). See [schema](#pieceoffer-schema).

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:aggregator.web3.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:aggregator.web3.storage",
  "att": [
    {
      "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
      "can": "piece/offer",
      "nb": {
        /* commitment proof for piece */
        "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" },
        /* grouping of joining segments into an aggregate */
        "group": "did:web:free.web3.storage"
      }
    }
  ],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

> An [Aggregator] MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge the received request. The receipt MUST contain a `fx.join` [effect] linking to [`piece/accept`] task that MUST either succeed with [`InclusionProof`] or fail with an error describing the reason.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An [Aggregator] MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge the received request. The receipt MUST contain an `fx.join` [effect] linking to [`piece/accept`] task that MUST either succeed with an [`InclusionProof`] or fail with an error describing the reason.
```

Author: grammar plugin I instal insisted that "a" is correct given `fx.join` 😭

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...pieceOffer",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      /* commitment proof for piece */
      "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" },
    }
  },
  "fx": {
    "join": { "/": "bafy...pieceAccept" }
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:aggregator.web3.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

See the [`piece/accept`] section for the subsequent task.

#### `piece/accept`

> An [Aggregator] MUST issue a receipt for the [`piece/accept`] task for the offered piece that was included in an aggregate. The receipt MUST contain an [`InclusionProof`] in the result and `fx.join` [effect] linking to [`aggregate/offer`] task, or an error detailing the reason.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An [Aggregator] MUST issue a receipt for the [`piece/accept`] task for the offered piece that was included in an aggregate. The receipt MUST contain an [`InclusionProof`] in the result and an `fx.join` [effect] linking to [`aggregate/offer`] task, or an error detailing the reason.
```

> It is RECOMMENDED to never fail [`piece/accept`] as piece inclusion is a deterministic computation occurring on validated data.

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...pieceAccept",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      /* commitment proof for piece */
      "piece": { "/": "commitment...car" },
      /* commitment proof for aggregate */
      "aggregate": { "/": "commitment...aggregate" },
      /** inclusion proof */
      "inclusion": {
        "tree": {
          "path": [/** ... */],
          "at": 4
        },
        "index": {
          "path": [/** ... */],
          "at": 7
        }
      }
    }

>   },

Reviewer 2: looks like we are missing here the effect to `aggregate/offer`?

Author: Good catch!

```suggestion
  "fx": {
    "join": { "/": "bafy...aggregateOffer" }
  },
```

  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:aggregator.web3.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

### _Dealer_ Capabilities

#### `aggregate/offer`

> An [Aggregator] can offer an aggregate for Filecoin deal inclusion by invoking a [`aggregate/offer`] capability. See [schema](#aggregateoffer-schema).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An [Aggregator] can offer an aggregate for Filecoin deal inclusion by invoking an [`aggregate/offer`] capability. See [schema](#aggregateoffer-schema).
```

> `did:web:aggregator.web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:dealer.web3.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:aggregator.web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:dealer.web3.storage",
  "att": [
    {
      "can": "aggregate/offer",
      /* storefront responsible for invocation */
      "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
      "nb": {
        /* commitment proof for aggregate */
        "aggregate": { "/": "bafk...aggregate-proof" },
        /* dag-cbor CID with content pieces */
        "pieces": { "/": "bafy...many-cars" },
      }
    }
  ],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

Invoking the [`aggregate/offer`] capability is a request to arrange Filecoin deals for the aggregate.

The `nb.aggregate` field represents a commitment proof for the `aggregate` to arrange a deal(s) for.

> The `nb.pieces` field represents a link to DAG-CBOR encoded list of pieces of an `aggregate`. The elements of the `nb.pieces` field MUST be sorted in the _same_ order as they were used to compute the aggregate piece CID. This block MUST be included with the invocation. Its format is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `nb.pieces` field represents a link to a DAG-CBOR encoded list of pieces of an `aggregate`. The elements of the `nb.pieces` field MUST be sorted in the _same_ order as they were used to compute the aggregate piece CID. This block MUST be included with the invocation. Its format is:
```

### Aggregator Capabilities

> #### `aggregate/offer`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `piece/offer`
```

> A Storefront can invoke a capability to offer a piece to be aggregated for upcoming Filecoin deal(s). See [schema](#aggregateoffer-schema).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Storefront can invoke a capability to offer a piece to be aggregated for upcoming Filecoin deal(s). See [schema](#pieceoffer-schema).
```

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:aggregator.web3.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:aggregator.web3.storage",
  "att": [
    {
      "with": "did:web:web3.storage",

>       "can": "aggregate/offer",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      "can": "piece/offer",
```

      "nb": {
        /* commitment proof for piece */
        "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" },
        /* grouping of joining segments into an aggregate */
        "group": "did:web:free.web3.storage"
      }
    }
  ],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

> An _Aggregator_ MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge the received request. Receipt MUST contain `fx.join` [effect] with a `aggregate/accept` task that MUST either succeed with [`InclusionProof`] or fail with an error describing the reason.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An _Aggregator_ MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge the received request. The receipt MUST contain an `fx.join` [effect] with an `aggregate/accept` task that MUST either succeed with [`InclusionProof`] or fail with an error describing the reason.
```

> An _Aggregator_ MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge the received request. Receipt MUST contain `fx.join` [effect] with a `aggregate/accept` task that MUST either succeed with [`InclusionProof`] or fail with an error describing the reason.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An _Aggregator_ MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge the received request. Receipt MUST contain `fx.join` [effect] with a `piece/accept` task that MUST either succeed with [`InclusionProof`] or fail with an error describing the reason.
```

Author: ```suggestion
An _Aggregator_ MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge the received request. The receipt MUST contain an `fx.join` [effect] with an `piece/accept` task that MUST either succeed with [`InclusionProof`] or fail with an error describing the reason.
```

```json
{

>   "ran": "bafy...aggregateOffer",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "ran": "bafy...pieceOffer",
```

  "out": {
    "ok": {
      /* commitment proof for piece */
      "piece": { "/": "bafk...commp" },
    }
  },
  "fx": {

>     "join": { "/": "bafy...aggregateAccept" }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "join": { "/": "bafy...pieceAccept" }
```

  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:aggregator.web3.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

> See [`aggregate/accept`](#aggregateaccept) section to see the subsequent task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [`piece/accept`](#pieceaccept) section to see the subsequent task.
```

> #### `aggregate/accept`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `piece/accept`
```

> An _Aggregator_ MUST issue receipt for `aggregate/accept` task for the offered piece that was included into an aggregate. Receipt MUST either contain [`InclusionProof`] in a result and `fx.join` [effect] linking to `deal/offer` task, or an error detailing the reason.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An _Aggregator_ MUST issue a receipt for the `aggregate/accept` task for the offered piece that was included in an aggregate. The receipt MUST contain an [`InclusionProof`] in the result and `fx.join` [effect] linking to `deal/offer` task, or an error detailing the reason.
```

> An _Aggregator_ MUST issue receipt for `aggregate/accept` task for the offered piece that was included into an aggregate. Receipt MUST either contain [`InclusionProof`] in a result and `fx.join` [effect] linking to `deal/offer` task, or an error detailing the reason.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An _Aggregator_ MUST issue receipt for `piece/accept` task for the offered piece that was included into an aggregate. Receipt MUST either contain [`InclusionProof`] in a result and `fx.join` [effect] linking to `aggregate/offer` task, or an error detailing the reason.
```

Author: ```suggestion
An _Aggregator_ MUST issue a receipt for the `piece/accept` task for the offered piece that was included in an aggregate. The receipt MUST contain an [`InclusionProof`] in the result and `fx.join` [effect] linking to `aggregate/offer` task, or an error detailing the reason.
```

> > It is RECOMMENDED to not fail `aggregate/accept` as piece inclusion is deterministic computation occurring on validated data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It is RECOMMENDED to never fail `aggregate/accept` as piece inclusion is a deterministic computation occurring on validated data.
```

> > It is RECOMMENDED to not fail `aggregate/accept` as piece inclusion is deterministic computation occurring on validated data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> It is RECOMMENDED to not fail `piece/accept` as piece inclusion is deterministic computation occurring on validated data
```

Author: ```suggestion
> It is RECOMMENDED to never fail `piece/accept` as piece inclusion is a deterministic computation occurring on validated data.
```

```json
{

>   "ran": "bafy...aggregateAccept",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "ran": "bafy...pieceAccept",
```

  "out": {
    "ok": {
      /* commitment proof for piece */
      "piece": { "/": "commitment...car" },
      /* commitment proof for aggregate */
      "aggregate": { "/": "commitment...aggregate" },
      /** inclusion proof */
      "inclusion": {
        "tree": {
          "path": [/** ... */],
          "at": 4
        },
        "index": {
          "path": [/** ... */],
          "at": 7
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:aggregator.web3.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

### Dealer Capabilities

> #### `deal/offer`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `aggregate/offer`
```

An _Aggregator_ can offer an aggregate for Filecoin deal inclusion by invoking a `deal/offer` capability. See [schema](#dealoffer-schema).

> `did:web:aggregator.web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:dealer.web3.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:aggregator.web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:dealer.web3.storage",
  "att": [
    {
      "can": "deal/offer",
      /* storefront responsible for invocation */
      "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
      "nb": {
        /* commitment proof for aggregate */
        "aggregate": { "/": "bafk...aggregate-proof" },
        /* dag-cbor CID with content pieces */
        "pieces": { "/": "bafy...many-cars" },
      }
    }
  ],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

Invoking the `deal/offer` capability is a request to arrange Filecoin deals for the aggregate.

The `nb.aggregate` field represents commitment proof for the `aggregate` to arrange a deal(s) for.

> The `nb.pieces` field represents a link to DAG-CBOR encoded list of pieces of an `aggregate`. The elements of the `nb.pieces` MUST be sorted in the exact same order as they were used to compute the aggregate piece CID. This block MUST be included with the invocation. Its format is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `nb.pieces` field represents a link to DAG-CBOR encoded list of pieces of an `aggregate`. The elements of the `nb.pieces` field MUST be sorted in the _same_ order as they were used to compute the aggregate piece CID. This block MUST be included with the invocation. Its format is:
```

```json
/* offers block as an array of piece CIDs, encoded as DAG-JSON (for readability) */
[
  { "/": "commitment...car0" } /* COMMP CID */,
  { "/": "commitment...car1" } /* COMMP CID */
  /* ... */
]
```

Each entry of the decoded offers block has all the necessary information for a Storage Provider to fetch and store a CAR file.

> The Dealer MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge request. Issued receipt MUST have `fx.join` [effect] linking to the `deal/accept` task which MUST succeed with [`DataAggregationProof`] after deals are live on Filecoin chain or fail (with an `error` describing a problem with the `aggregate`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dealer MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge the request. The issued receipt MUST have an `fx.join` [effect] linking to the `deal/accept` task which MUST succeed with the [`DataAggregationProof`] after deals are live on the Filecoin chain or fail (with an `error` describing the problem with the `aggregate`).
```

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...dealOffer",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      /* commitment proof for aggregate */
        "aggregate": { "/": "bafk...aggregate-proof" },
    }
  },
  "fx": {
    "join": { "/": "bafy...dealAccept" }
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:dealer.web3.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

> See [`deal/accept`](#dealaccept) section to see the subsequent task.

Author: ```suggestion
See the [`aggregate/accept`](#aggregateaccept) section for the subsequent task.
```

### `deal/accept`

> The _Dealer_ MUST issue receipt for `deal/accept` task once it arranges deals with Storage Providers and they are live on Filecoin chain. Receipt MUST either succeed with [`DataAggregationProof`] or fail (with an `error` describing a problem with the `aggregate`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _Dealer_ MUST issue a receipt for the `deal/accept` task once it arranges deals with Storage Providers and they are live on the Filecoin chain. The receipt MUST either succeed with the [`DataAggregationProof`] or fail (with an `error` describing the problem with the `aggregate`).
```

> The _Dealer_ MUST issue receipt for `deal/accept` task once it arranges deals with Storage Providers and they are live on Filecoin chain. Receipt MUST either succeed with [`DataAggregationProof`] or fail (with an `error` describing a problem with the `aggregate`).

Author: ```suggestion
The _Dealer_ MUST issue a receipt for the `aggregate/accept` task once it arranges deals with Storage Providers and they are live on the Filecoin chain. The receipt MUST either succeed with the [`DataAggregationProof`] or fail (with an `error` describing the problem with the `aggregate`).
```

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...dealAccept",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      "inclusion": {
        "tree": {
          "path": [
            "bafk...root",
            "bafk...parent",
            "bafk...child",
            "bag...car"
          ],
          "at": 1
        },
        "index": {
          "path": [/** ... */],
          "at": 7
        }
      },
      "auxDataType": 0,
      "auxDataSource": {
        "dealID": 1245
      }
    }
  },
  "fx": {},
  "iss": "did:web:dealer.web3.storage",
  "meta": {},
  "prf": []
}
```

> If deal fails due to invalid piece issued receipt MUST have contain `fx.fork` [effect]s that to retry valid pieces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a deal fails due to an invalid piece, the issued receipt MUST contain `fx.fork` [effect]s that retry valid pieces.
```

> > ℹ️ This allows observer to follow new execution chain even if original piece inclusion failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ℹ️ This allows an observer to follow the new execution chain even if the original piece inclusion failed.
```

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...dealAccept",
  "out": {
    "error": {
      "name": "InvalidPiece",
      "message": "....",
      /* commitment proof */
      "aggregate": { "/": "bafk...aggregate-proof" },
      "cause": [
        {
          "name": "InvalidPieceCID",
          "message": "....",
          "piece": { "/": "bafk...car0" }
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "fx": {
    "fork": [
      { "/": "bafy...piece1Offer" },
      { "/": "bafy...piece2Offer" },
      /** ... */
    ]
  },
  "iss": "did:web:dealer.web3.storage",
  "meta": {},
  "prf": []
}
```

### Deal Tracker Capabilities

#### `deal/info`

> A _Storefront_ and _Aggregator_ MAY invoke `deal/info` capability to request a current state of the aggregate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _Storefront_ and an _Aggregator_ MAY invoke a `deal/info` capability to request the current state of the aggregate.
```

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:tracker.web3.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:tracker.web3.storage",
  "att": [
    {
      "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
      "can": "deal/info",
      "nb": {
        /* commitment proof */
        "piece": { "/": "commitment...aggregate-proof" }
      }
    }
  ],
  "nnc": "lmpxywjr",
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

> > ⚠️ Invoker SHOULD utilize nonce on subsequent calls to avoid receiving response for the prior invocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ The invoker SHOULD utilize a nonce on subsequent calls to avoid receiving a response for the prior invocation.
```

> _Deal Tracker_ MUST succeed invocation and return deal information for the aggregate if it is on chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The invocation to the _Deal Tracker_ MUST succeed and return deal information for the aggregate if it is on chain.
```

          "updated": "2024-04-12T03:42:26.928993+00:00"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "fx": {
    "fork": []
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

> _Deal Tracker_ MUST fail invocation if deal information for the aggregate is not on chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The invocation to the _Deal Tracker_ MUST fail if the deal information for the aggregate is _not_ on chain.
```

```

### `filecoin/offer` schema

```ipldsch
type FilecoinOffer struct {
  with AgentDID
  nb FilecoinOfferDetail
}

type FilecoinOfferDetail struct {
  # CID of file previously added to resource space
  content &Content
  # Piece as Filecoin Piece with padding
  piece PieceLink
}
```

### `filecoin/submit` schema

```ipldsch
type FilecoinSubmit struct {
  with AgentDID
  nb FilecoinOfferDetail
}

type FilecoinSubmitDetail = FilecoinOfferDetail
```

### `filecoin/accept` schema

```ipldsch
type FilecoinAccept struct {
  with AgentDID
  nb FilecoinAcceptDetail
}

type FilecoinAcceptDetail = FilecoinOfferDetail
```

### `piece/offer` schema

```ipldsch
type PieceOffer struct {
  with AgentDID
  nb PieceOfferDetail
}

type PieceOfferDetail struct {
  # Piece as Filecoin Piece with padding
  piece PieceLink
  # grouping for joining segments into an aggregate (subset of space)
  group string
}
```

### `piece/accept` schema

```ipldsch
type PieceAccept struct {
  with AgentDID
  nb PieceAcceptDetail
}

type PieceAcceptDetail struct {
  # Piece as Filecoin Piece with padding
  piece PieceLink
  # Grouping for joining segments into an aggregate (subset of space)
  group string

> }

Reviewer 2: Should we do like above for `Piece*` and only capture once this type?

```js
type PieceAcceptDetail = PieceOfferDetail
```

```

### `aggregate/offer` schema

```ipldsch
type AggregateOffer struct {
  with StorefrontDID
  nb AggregateOfferDetail
}

type AggregateOfferDetail struct {
  # Contains each individual piece within Aggregate piece
  pieces &AggregatePieces
  # Piece as Aggregate of CARs with padding
  aggregate PieceLink
}
```

### `aggregate/accept` schema

```ipldsch
type AggregateAccept struct {
  with StorefrontDID
  nb AggregateAcceptDetail
}

type AggregateAcceptDetail struct {
  # Contains each individual piece within Aggregate piece
  pieces &AggregatePieces
  # Piece as Aggregate of CARs with padding
  aggregate PieceLink

> }

Reviewer 2: Should we do like above for `Piece*` and only capture once this type?

```js
type AggregateAcceptDetail = AggregateOfferDetail
```

### Base types

```ipldsch
type FilecoinCapability union {
  | FilecoinOffer "filecoin/offer"
  | FilecoinAccept "filecoin/accept"
} representation inline {
  discriminantKey "can"
}

type PieceCapability union {
  | PieceOffer "piece/offer"
  | PieceSubmit "piece/submit"
  | PieceAccept "piece/accept"
} representation inline {
  discriminantKey "can"
}

type AggregateCapability union {
  | AggregateOffer "aggregate/offer"
  | AggregateAccept "aggregate/accept"
} representation inline {
  discriminantKey "can"
}

> type DealCapability enum {

Author: Everywhere else we used first term as prefix e.g. `AggregateCapability` as opposed to `DealerCapability` why not do the same here ?

> type DealCapability enum {

Reviewer 2: Ok that sounds good, I was thinking more about the implementers
